=Fig

===DRY up those magic numbers and hard coded strings into something more managable.  Fig is the smart way to manage stuff that really belongs in a config file instead of scattered throughout your code.

==Why

I know that Ruby is a dynamic language and that hard coded values aren't as big a deal, but...
it's still good practice to have a centralized place to hold certain settings.

I used to create a globally available Hash to store this stuff, but have always wanted something more powerful and elegant.


==What

Fig is a simple to use configuration management tool for Ruby applications and libraries.  

The primary features are: 
* Multiple configuration files
* Dynamic updating and re-loading of configuration files
* Simple dot-notation access to configuration settings
* YAML access to configuration settings
* Safe options to request settings that may not exist
* Interpolation to help DRY up configuration files through reuse of settings
* Thread safe

==How

The simplest way to get started is to watch the 10 minute tutorial.



===Installation

Fig is availabe as both a Gem and as a Rails Plugin.

====To install as a Gem:

First, be sure that Github has been added as a gem source. (This only needs to be done once.)
  gem sources -a http://gems.github.com

Second, install the Gem.
  sudo gem install hopsoft-fig

====To install as a Rails Plugin:
  script/plugin install git://github.com/hopsoft/fig.git


===Usage
Create a YAML file that will serve as one of the configuration files you plan to use.  In a Rails application, I usually create the file config/app.yml, but you can name the file anything you like and can save it to any location within your appliation or library.

Require Fig either explicitly or implicitly.  In a Rails application, I generally do this in environment.rb.
  # implicit
  require 'hopsoft/fig'
  # explicit
  gem 'hopsoft-fig'

Instantiate a Fig object that is globally available to your application.  In a Rails application, I generally do this in environment.rb.
  APP_CONFIG = Hopsoft::Fig.new(RAILS_ROOT + '/config/app.yml')

Start using your settings.
  puts APP_CONFIG.settings.message
  puts APP_CONFIG.yaml['message']
  puts APP_CONFIG.get_setting('message')
  # returns nil instead of an error when the setting doesn't exist
  puts APP_CONFIG.get_setting('some.nested.setting.that.may.not.exist')
  
Reuse settings in your YAML file (This is a great way to apply the DRY principle to your configuration settings):
  name: Nathan Hopkins
  message: {fig:name} says hello.
 
  puts APP_CONFIG.get_setting('message')
  # outputs -> Nathan Hopkins says hello.

Update the YAML file and load the changes without restarting your application.
  APP_CONFIG.load


Copyright (c) 2008 Hopsoft LLC, released under the MIT license
